Release TLS1.3 Pre-Shared Key (PSK) (#2881)
aws/s2n-tls: docs/USAGE-GUIDE.md

**s2n_config_add_ticket_crypto_key** adds session ticket key on the server side. It would be ideal to add new keys after every (encrypt_decrypt_key_lifetime_in_nanos/2) nanos because
this will allow for gradual and linear transition of a key from encrypt-decrypt state to decrypt-only state.

## TLS1.3 Pre-Shared Key (PSK) Related Calls 

> S2N-TLS provides support for pre-shared keys that can be established out of band and pre-shared keys that can be established in a previous connection and then used to establish a new connection via session resumption for versions >= TLS1.3. The Pre-shared key is used to mutually authenticate the peers, under the assumption that it is not shared with others. This allows the parties to skip the certificate verification steps, saving bandwidth, communication rounds, and latency. When a PSK is used, the underlying assumption is that a party receiving a message that passes verification with the PSK knows that the message was sent by a party that also owns that PSK. 

Reviewer: I prefer:
"S2N-TLS provides support for pre-shared keys established out-of-band. The pre-shared key is used to mutually authenticate the peers under the assumption the key is not shared with others. This allows parties to skip certificate verification, saving bandwidth, communication rounds, and latency. 

Why mention session resumption at all here? Also I'm not really sure what that last sentence is saying, it's a little unclear.

Benefits of using Pre-Shared Keys include: 

> - Using pre-shared keys can avoid the need for public key operations. This is useful if TLS is used in  performance-constrained environments with limited CPU power.

Reviewer: extra space after "in"

> - Pre-shared keys may be more convenient from a key management point of view. For instance, in closed environments where the connections are  mostly configured manually in advance, it is easier to configure a PSK  than to use certificates. Another case is when the parties already have a mechanism for setting up a shared secret key, and that mechanism could be used to "bootstrap" a key for authenticating a TLS connection.

Reviewer: extra space after "are"
extra space after "PSK"

int s2n_connection_get_negotiated_psk_identity_length(struct s2n_connection *conn, uint16_t *identity_length);
int s2n_connection_get_negotiated_psk_identity(struct s2n_connection *conn, uint8_t *identity, uint16_t max_identity_length);
struct s2n_offered_psk* s2n_offered_psk_new();
int s2n_offered_psk_free(struct s2n_offered_psk **psk);
int s2n_offered_psk_get_identity(struct s2n_offered_psk *psk, uint8_t** identity, uint16_t *size);
bool s2n_offered_psk_list_has_next(struct s2n_offered_psk_list *psk_list);
int s2n_offered_psk_list_next(struct s2n_offered_psk_list *psk_list, struct s2n_offered_psk *psk);
int s2n_offered_psk_list_reread(struct s2n_offered_psk_list *psk_list);
int s2n_offered_psk_list_choose_psk(struct s2n_offered_psk_list *psk_list, struct s2n_offered_psk *psk);
typedef int (*s2n_psk_selection_callback)(struct s2n_connection *conn, void *context,
                                          struct s2n_offered_psk_list *psk_list);
int s2n_config_set_psk_selection_callback(struct s2n_config *config, s2n_psk_selection_callback cb, void *context);
```

### Configuring External Pre-Shared Keys

> Use the following APIs to configure and use external pre-shared keys in the > =TLS1.3 connections. An external PSK is an out-of-band provisioned pre-shared key (PSK) established externally using a secure mutually agreed upon mechanism.

Reviewer: extra space after ">"

> 

Reviewer 2: We don't have a security considerations document, but you should still mention best practices here, even if you don't go too in depth.

Author: What specifically do you want to call out in Best Practices here? I have tried to call out the necessary ones along with the description. For ex: using non-secret value for PSK Identity, PSK_HMAC that match cipher suite. Anything specific you are looking for me to add?

Reviewer 2: Minimally the "one secret per client/server pair", and maybe also mention secure key generation.

> To create an external PSK a caller must call the `s2n_external_psk_new` API.**s2n_external_psk_new** creates a new s2n external pre-shared key (PSK) object with `S2N_PSK_HMAC_SHA256` as the default pre-shared key hash algorithm. Note that the obfuscated ticket age will always be zero for external PSKs. Use `s2n_psk_free` to free the memory allocated to the s2n external pre-shared key object created by this API.

Reviewer 2: Is the obfuscated ticket age comment necessary? Also, the USAGE guide seems to use **symbol** instead of `symbol`.
```suggestion
To create an external PSK a caller must call the **s2n_external_psk_new** API. **s2n_external_psk_new** creates a new external PSK object with **S2N_PSK_HMAC_SHA256** as the default pre-shared key hash algorithm.
```

**s2n_psk_free** frees the memory associated with the `s2n_psk` object.

> After creation of the external PSK object use `s2n_psk_set_identity`, `s2n_psk_set_secret` to set the PSK Identity and PSK secret. To override the default PSK Hash Algorithm  use `s2n_psk_set_hmac`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use 's2n_psk_set_identity' and 's2n_psk_set_secret' to set the pre-shared key identity and secret after creating the external pre-shared key object. Use 's2n_psk_set_hmac' to override the default hash algorithm.
```

> **s2n_psk_set_identity** sets the pre-shared key (PSK) identity for a given s2n_psk object. The pre-shared key identity is a unique identifier for the pre-shared secret. The Pre-shared key identity is transmitted over the network unencrypted and is a non-secret value. Be sure to not include any confidential information as a part of the pre-shared key identity. Note that the identity value is copied into s2n-tls memory and the user is responsbile for freeing the memory  associated with the `identity` input. Be sure to call `free(identity)` after this API call. 

Reviewer 2: We either need to say pre-shared key every time, or accept that the intro explained "PSK" and we can now use PSK. Mixing them and repeating the (PSK) seems messy.

```suggestion
**s2n_psk_set_identity** sets the identity for a given PSK. The identity must be unique for all PSKs supported by a server or client. The identity is transmitted over the network unencrypted and is a non-secret value, so be sure not to incorporate any confidential information. Note that the identity value is copied into s2n-tls memory and the user is responsible for freeing the memory associated with the input.
```

> **s2n_psk_set_secret** sets the out-of-band/externally provisioned pre-shared secret (PSK) for a given s2n_psk object. Note that the secret value is copied into s2n-tls memory and the user is responsbile for freeing the memory associated with the `secret` input. Be sure to call `free(secret)` after this API call.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**s2n_psk_set_secret** sets the out-of-band/externally provisioned secret for a given PSK. Note that the secret value is copied into s2n-tls memory and the user is responsible for freeing the memory associated with the `secret` input. Be sure to call `free(secret)` after this API call.
```

**s2n_psk_set_hmac** sets the PSK HMAC algorithm for a given PSK object.

> The supported pre-shared key HMAC algorithms are listed in the `s2n_psk_hmac` enum. Note that in versions >= TLS1.3 the cipher suite selected has the same Hash alogrithm as the pre-shared key. Use this API to override the default PSK Hash Algorithm value `S2N_PSK_HMAC_SHA256`. 

Reviewer 2: What is the HMAC for? When should a customer call this API?

Author: The last line already calls that out:`Use this API to override the default PSK Hash Algorithm value `S2N_PSK_HMAC_SHA256`.

Reviewer 2: That tells me what the API is for, but not what the HMAC algorithm is for. When would I want to override the HMAC?

> Once the external PSK object is created and updated to include the PSK identity and secret, the caller can add the external PSK to the connection using `s2n_connection_append_psk` API. This API sets up the list of PSKs on the connection that will later be used by the pre-shared key extension to select a pre-shared key for the connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After adding an identity and secret to the PSK object, append the PSK to the connection using 's2n_connection_append_psk'.
```
I don't really think you need that last sentence, the user doesn't need to know about the psk extension.

Author: I think we should mention that the reason we append: `After adding an identity and secret to the PSK object, append the PSK to the connection using 's2n_connection_append_psk'. This API sets up the list of PSKs on the connection that will later be used by the PSK extension to select a PSK for the connection.`

> **s2n_connection_append_psk** appends a pre-shared key object to the list of pre-shared keys supported by the s2n connection. If a pre-shared key with a duplicate identity is found, an error is returned and the pre-shared key is not added to the list. Note that the PSK object is copied to the connection and the user is responsbile for freeing the memory associated with the s2n_psk object. Use `s2n_psk_free` to free the memory associated with the external pre-shared key object after using this API.

Reviewer 2: Why repeat this across two different paragraphs? Also, should we discuss PSK ordering relevance somewhere?

**s2n_config_set_psk_mode** sets the PSK mode on the s2n config object. The enum **s2n_psk_mode** lists the supported PSK modes. 

> 

Reviewer 2: When would I need to call this API? It's probably worth mentioning in the usage guide that this can be used to switch between external and resumption, but we also do this automatically for the customer in most cases.

**s2n_connection_set_psk_mode** sets the pre-shared key mode on the s2n connection object. The supported pre-shared key modes are listed in the enum `s2n_psk_mode`. This API overrides the pre-shared key mode for the connection and will continue to use the existing pre-shared key mode even when a new config is set for the connection. 

### Obtaining Negotiated Pre-Shared Keys

> The folllowing APIs enable the caller to obtain the pre-shared key that was selected by the server for the connection. 

Reviewer: following

**s2n_connection_get_negotiated_psk_identity_length** gets the negotiated pre-shared key identity length from the s2n connection object. If the negotiated pre-shared key does not exist, the value `0` is returned.  

**s2n_connection_get_negotiated_psk_identity** gets the negotiated pre-shared key identity from the s2n connection object. If the negotiated pre-shared key does not exist, the PSK identity will not be obtained and no error will be returned.  

### Configuring Client Offered Pre-Shared Keys
 
The folllowing APIs enable the client to configure the list of pre-shared keys supported.

> 

Reviewer 2: These APIs are actually called by the server to process the client list, not by the client. They're not used to configure client PSKs.

Author: When I meant `configure the client offered pre-shared keys`  - I was referring to the list of PSKS sent from the client and processed by the server.

**s2n_offered_psk** creates a new s2n offered pre-shared key object. An offered pre-shared key object represents a single pre-shared key (PSK) shared by the client. This object is used to create the list of offered pre-shared keys shared by the client. Use `s2n_offered_psk_free` to free the memory allocated to the s2n offered pre-shared key object created by this API. 

**s2n_offered_psk_free** frees the memory associated with the `s2n_offered_psk` object.

### Using the Offered Pre-Shared Keys to Select a Pre-Shared Key

> The following APIs enable the client to use it's list of offered pre-shared keys to set the callback that selects the matching server pre-shared key to be used for the connection. Use the `s2n_config_set_psk_selection_callback` only when a custom pre-shared key selection logic is desired by the client. By default in the pre-shared key exension, s2n-tls server chooses the first identity in its pre-shared key list that also appears in the client's pre-shared key list.

Reviewer 2: These are called by the server, not the client. We also don't need to mention the extension.

Author: The offered PSKs are set by the client and its processed by the server.

**s2n_offered_psk_get_identity** gets the pre-shared key identity and pre-shared key identity length for a given offered pre-shared key object. Callers can use this API to obtain the identity value set on the `s2n_offered_psk` object.

**s2n_offered_psk_list_has_next** checks whether the offered pre-shared key list has an offered psk object next in line in the list. An offered pre-shared key list contains all the pre-shared keys offered by the client for the server to select.
If an offered pre-shared key exists next in line, this API returns True, otherwise False. Use this API prior to calling `s2n_offered_psk_list_next` to obtain the next offered PSK object from the offered PSK list. 

**s2n_offered_psk_list_next** obtains the next offered PSK object from the offered PSK list. 
Use `s2n_offered_psk_list_has_next` prior to this API call to determine if an offered PSK exists next in the list. 

> **s2n_offered_psk_list_reread** resets the offered pre-shared key list pointer to the initial pre-shared key object in the order in which the pre-shared key objects were originally added to the list by the client. Use this API along with the `s2n_psk_selection_callback` callback, if needed, to select a pre-shared key for the connection.

Reviewer 2: An example would probably help, but it might also help to discuss these three together and how they interact. That's the benefit of the usage guide over the doxygen comments.

**s2n_config_add_ticket_crypto_key** adds session ticket key on the server side. It would be ideal to add new keys after every (encrypt_decrypt_key_lifetime_in_nanos/2) nanos because
this will allow for gradual and linear transition of a key from encrypt-decrypt state to decrypt-only state.

> ## TLS1.3 Pre-Shared Key (PSK) Related Calls 

Author: I choose this to be after `Session Resumption Related calls` section.

> ## TLS1.3 Pre-Shared Key (PSK) Related Calls 

Reviewer 2: But this is a H2 (##). That means that any H3 (###) that comes after it is now in the wrong section.

> S2N-TLS provides support for pre-shared keys that can be established out of band and pre-shared keys that can be established in a previous connection and then used to establish a new connection via session resumption for versions >= TLS1.3. The Pre-shared key is used to mutually authenticate the peers, under the assumption that it is not shared with others. This allows the parties to skip the certificate verification steps, saving bandwidth, communication rounds, and latency. When a PSK is used, the underlying assumption is that a party receiving a message that passes verification with the PSK knows that the message was sent by a party that also owns that PSK. 

Reviewer 2: * I'd suggest clearly establishing terminology first.
* PSKs by themselves don't save any round trips
* I think the last sentence is repetitive, or I'm missing what it's trying to communicate.

```suggestion
S2N-TLS provides support for pre-shared keys (PSKs). PSKs can be established out of band (external PSKs) or in a previous connection (resumption PSKs). The PSK is used to mutually authenticate the peers, under the assumption that it is not shared with others. This allows the handshake to skip the certificate verification steps, saving bandwidth and latency.
```

> Benefits of using Pre-Shared Keys include: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Benefits of using pre-shared keys include: 
```

- Using pre-shared keys can avoid the need for public key operations. This is useful if TLS is used in  performance-constrained environments with limited CPU power.
- Pre-shared keys may be more convenient from a key management point of view. For instance, in closed environments where the connections are  mostly configured manually in advance, it is easier to configure a PSK  than to use certificates. Another case is when the parties already have a mechanism for setting up a shared secret key, and that mechanism could be used to "bootstrap" a key for authenticating a TLS connection.

> - Pre-shared keys are more appropriate for use cases with long-lived credentials stored in hardware secure elements than PKI-based solutions which enforce expiration dates and require error-prone rotation schemes.

Reviewer 2: Can you tweak the phrasing of your bullets? The intro to this list says "benefits include:", so bullets should follow from that. Trying reading it as an in-line list: "Benefits of using pre-shared keys include using pre-shared keys can avoid the need for public key operations, pre-shared keys may be more convenient from a key management point of view, etc."

Also: nit, but you've got something going on with your spaces? Sometimes there's two spaces between words instead of one

S2N-TLS provides the following pre-shared key related calls to configure and use pre-shared keys in the connection.
```c
struct s2n_psk* s2n_external_psk_new();
int s2n_psk_free(struct s2n_psk **psk);

> int s2n_psk_set_identity(struct s2n_psk *psk, const uint8_t *identity, uint16_t identity_size);

Reviewer 2: If you're going to include all the signatures, maybe include them in the relevant subsection? That might make this list more useful

**s2n_config_add_ticket_crypto_key** adds session ticket key on the server side. It would be ideal to add new keys after every (encrypt_decrypt_key_lifetime_in_nanos/2) nanos because
this will allow for gradual and linear transition of a key from encrypt-decrypt state to decrypt-only state.

## TLS1.3 Pre-Shared Key (PSK) Related Calls 

### s2n\_external\_psk\_new

```c
struct s2n_psk* s2n_external_psk_new();
```

> **s2n_external_psk_new** creates a new s2n external PSK object with `S2N_PSK_HMAC_SHA256` as the default PSK hash algorithm. Use `s2n_psk_free` to free the memory allocated to the s2n external PSK object.

Reviewer 2: You're repeating the comments from s2n.h.

Consider discussing multiple APIs at once instead of each individually, and giving more information about how they interact and can be combined to actually use PSKs. If I'm a customer who just wants to use PSKs, how do I know which of these APIs I need to care about when? Imagine your customer as someone who wants to use pre-shared keys in S2N but hasn't necessarily read the code yet and doesn't necessarily know all the lingo / terms.

int s2n_connection_get_negotiated_psk_identity_length(struct s2n_connection *conn, uint16_t *identity_length);
int s2n_connection_get_negotiated_psk_identity(struct s2n_connection *conn, uint8_t *identity, uint16_t max_identity_length);
```

**s2n_connection_get_negotiated_psk_identity_length** gets the negotiated PSK identity length from the s2n connection object.
If the negotiated PSK does not exist, the value **0** is returned.

**s2n_connection_get_negotiated_psk_identity** gets the negotiated PSK identity from the s2n connection object.
If the negotiated PSK does not exist, the PSK identity will not be obtained and no error will be returned.

### Configuring Offered Pre-Shared Keys

The following APIs are use to create and free the offered PSK list:

```c
struct s2n_offered_psk* s2n_offered_psk_new();
int s2n_offered_psk_free(struct s2n_offered_psk **psk);
```

**s2n_offered_psk** creates a new s2n offered PSK object. An offered PSK object represents a single PSK offered by the client.
This object is used to create the list of offered pre-shared keys shared by the client. Use **s2n_offered_psk_free** to free the memory allocated to the
offered PSK object created by this API.

> **s2n_offered_psk_free** frees the memory associated with the **s2n_offered_psk** object.

Reviewer 2: Should these really be a separate section from the rest of the offered APIs?  You only use these APIs to interact with the offered psk list in the callback. Maybe put them both in a subsection dedicated to implementing the PSK selection API?

Author: Stylistic, I can move it within Using the Offered Pre-Shared Keys ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

[s2n_connection_wipe](#s2n\_connection\_wipe) does not need to be called prior to this function. **s2n_connection_free** performs its own wipe
of sensitive data.

## TLS1.3 Pre-Shared Key (PSK) Related Calls

> S2N-TLS provides support for pre-shared keys. PSKs can be established out of band (external PSKs) or in a previous connection (resumption PSKs).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
S2N-TLS provides support for pre-shared keys (PSKs). PSKs can be established out of band (external PSKs) or in a previous connection (resumption PSKs).
```

Author: It is already abbreviated on line 1780.

Reviewer 2: If you feel the need to write out "pre-shared keys", it's probably worth repeating the abbreviation too. I agree with writing it out the first time. I'm not sure I would actually even including the abbreviation in the header.

- Using pre-shared keys can avoid the need for public key operations.
  This is useful if TLS is used in performance-constrained environments with limited CPU power.
- Pre-shared keys may be more convenient from a key management point of view. For instance, in closed environments where the connections are
  mostly configured manually in advance, it is easier to configure a PSK than to use certificates. Another case is when the parties already have a
  mechanism for setting up a shared secret key, and that mechanism could be used to "bootstrap" a key for authenticating a TLS connection.
- Pre-shared keys are more appropriate for use cases with long-lived credentials stored in hardware secure elements than PKI-based solutions which
  enforces expiration dates and require error-prone rotation schemes.
- To prevent the reflection/selfie attack use a different PSK for each endpoint, and use a different PSK when acting as a server and a
  different PSK when acting as a client. Read the research paper titled [Selfie: reflections on TLS 1.3 with PSK](https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/347.pdf) for more information.

> - The server name should be set with the server name in mind. If the server name is configured during the ClientHello callback, then so should the PSKs.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what this is a list of. It starts out as reasons to use PSKs, but then switches to security considerations?

> - The server name should be set with the server name in mind. If the server name is configured during the ClientHello callback, then so should the PSKs.

Reviewer 2: I think this is missing context. What two different server names are we talking about? Or should that be "The PSKs should be set withe the server name in mind"?

After adding an identity and secret to the PSK object, append the PSK to the connection using **s2n_connection_append_psk**. This API sets up the list of PSKs on the connection that will later be used by the PSK extension to select a PSK for the connection. If a PSK with a duplicate identity is found, an error is returned and the PSK is not added to the list. Note that the PSK object is copied to the connection and the user is responsible for freeing the memory associated with the s2n_psk object. Use **s2n_psk_free** to free the memory associated with the external PSK object after using this API.

**s2n_config_set_psk_mode** sets the PSK mode on the s2n config object. The enum **s2n_psk_mode** lists the supported PSK modes. Use this API prior to the ClientHello to set the PSK mode for the connection. This API can also be used to switch between the different PSK modes.

**s2n_connection_set_psk_mode** sets the PSK mode on the s2n connection object. The supported PSK modes are listed in the enum **s2n_psk_mode** within the **api/s2n.h** file.

> This API overrides the PSK mode for the connection and will continue to use the existing PSK mode even when a new config is set for the connection.

Reviewer 2: You should describe actual usage cases for these two. Customers are unlikely to actually need to call them.

### Obtaining Negotiated Pre-Shared Keys

The following APIs enable the caller to obtain the PSK that was selected by the server for the connection:

```c
int s2n_connection_get_negotiated_psk_identity_length(struct s2n_connection *conn, uint16_t *identity_length);
int s2n_connection_get_negotiated_psk_identity(struct s2n_connection *conn, uint8_t *identity, uint16_t max_identity_length);
```

**s2n_connection_get_negotiated_psk_identity_length** gets the negotiated PSK identity length from the s2n connection object.
If the negotiated PSK does not exist, the value **0** is returned.

**s2n_connection_get_negotiated_psk_identity** gets the negotiated PSK identity from the s2n connection object.
If the negotiated PSK does not exist, the PSK identity will not be obtained and no error will be returned.

> ### Using the Offered Pre-Shared Keys to Select a Pre-Shared Key

Reviewer 2: I don't think the "Offered Pre-shared keys" are important enough to make the header. Focus on the actual use case, so something like "Implementing the PSK selection callback" or "Choosing a pre-shared key".

You could also describe the default behavior (choose the first valid resumption psk, choose the first match from the server's list) in this section so that people know if they need to implement the callback.

I also don't see any mention of synchronous / asynchronous. Can this callback be implemented asynchronously?

Author: Nope, this callback has to be implemented prior to processing of the psk extensions/ClientHello

Reviewer 2: You should note that then. One of the first questions people are going to ask about this callback is whether it can be called asynchronously.

This API matches the PSK identity received from the client against the server's known PSK identities list,
in order to choose the PSK to be used for the connection. If the PSK identity sent from the client is NULL,
no PSK is chosen for the connection. If the client offered PSK identity has no matching PSK identity with the server,
an error will be returned. Use this API along with the **s2n_psk_selection_callback** callback to select a PSK for the connection.

**s2n_psk_selection_callback** is a callback function to select a PSK from a list of offered pre-shared keys.
Use this callback to implement custom PSK selection logic. By default s2n-tls server chooses the first identity in its PSK
list that also appears in the client's PSK list.

**s2n_config_set_psk_selection_callback** sets the callback to select the matching PSK . If this callback is not set,
the server chooses the first identity in its PSK list that also appears in the client's PSK list.

For Example:

```c
int s2n_psk_selection_callback(struct s2n_connection *conn, void *context,
        struct s2n_offered_psk_list *psk_identity_list)
{
    uint16_t *wire_index_choice = (uint16_t*) context;

> 

Reviewer 2: This is often how we implemented the callback in tests, but I'm not sure it's the best example. People might be confused that you're passing the choice into the callback instead of actually choosing inside the callback.

    struct s2n_offered_psk offered_psk = { 0 };

>     uint16_t idx = 0;

Reviewer 2: A customer can't create an s2n_offered_psk on the stack. It's an opaque pointer.

    while(s2n_offered_psk_list_has_next(psk_identity_list)) {
        POSIX_GUARD(s2n_offered_psk_list_next(psk_identity_list, &offered_psk));
        if (idx == *wire_index_choice) {
            POSIX_GUARD(s2n_offered_psk_list_choose_psk(psk_identity_list, &offered_psk));
            break;
        }
        idx++;
    };
    return S2N_SUCCESS;
}

struct s2n_config *config = s2n_config_new();
uint16_t expected_wire_choice = 0;

> s2n_config_set_psk_selection_callback(config, s2n_psk_selection_callback, &expected_wire_choice));

Reviewer 2: This part of the example is probably unnecessary.

Author: It shows the use of `s2n_config_set_psk_selection_callback` and ties it together IMO. We aren't loosing anything by adding it. :)
